# Installing a Fogbow site

This tutorial provides an easy way to deploy a Fogbow site. The infrastructure required for this deployment
are two machines where the several Fogbow microservices will be installed. A third
machine is used only to run the scripts that automate the installation of the required software in the
two deployment machines. 

The installation has three main steps: **infrastructure setup**, where the *installation machine*, the
*deployment machines*, and the cloud infrastructure are configured; **configuration customization**, where
several configuration files are edited to reflect the particularities of the site's deployment; and the
actual **software installation**, which is automated through Ansible recipes.

*IMPORTANT NOTE: Throughout this guide we will provide several example values for the different properties
that are used in configuration files. It is important that, as you advance in the installation procedure,
the real values of your installation are noted down. You will need these values to replace, where appropriate,
the example values given in this guide.*

## Infrastructure setup

### Installation machine setup

The *installation machine* is a machine running any Unix-like operating system, on which Git and
Ansible can be installed. Additionally, it needs to have ssh access to the *deployment machines*.

Log in the *installation machine* and perform the following steps:

1. If not already installed, install [Git](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git/).

2. If not already installed, install [Ansible](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html).

3. If not already, installed, install pwgen:

```bash
# DEBIAN/UBUNTU
$ apt-get install -y pwgen
# FEDORA
$ dnf install -y pwgen
# CENTOS
$ yum install -y pwgen
# MacOS
$ brew install pwgen
```

4. Download the *fogbow-deploy* project:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/fogbow/fogbow-deploy.git
```

### Deployment machines setup

The main purpose here is to configure the connectivity between the *installation machine* and
the *deployment machines*, between the two *deployment machines*, and between the *deployment machines*
and external machines.

The deployment machines can be either physical or virtual machines running Linux. In this guide
we assume that these are virtual machines deployed at the same cloud that is going to be federated
with Fogbow. Below we describe how these virtual machines should be created, and configured, for
the different technologies supported.

- [Openstack cloud](2.1-openstack-deployment-machines-setup.md)
- [Cloudstack cloud](2.1-cloudstack-deployment-machines-setup.md)

### Cloud setup

Before installing Fogbow, it is necessary to setup a few things in the underlying cloud that is
going to be federated. More precisely, it is necessary to ask the cloud administrator to define
resource quotas that will define which and how much resources will be made available
to the federation. The particularities of this step depend on the technology used in the underlying
cloud. Below we provide detailed descriptions for the supported cloud technologies.

- [Openstack setup](2.2-openstack-configuration.md) 
- [Cloudstack setup](2.2-cloudstack-configuration.md)

### DNS configuration

Now that the infrastructure has been created, you need to have the DNS configured, so to enable the **dmz-host**
to receive XMPP messages, and the services running in the **internal-host** to address each other. 

A DNS entry is needed for the prefix of the **XMPP ID** a.k.a **member-site-id** of the Fogbow installation
(the full name will have the domain of the organization appended). This configuration associates the public
IP of the **dmz-host** to its **XMPP ID** prefix, as indicated below (recall that we assume that
**100.30.1.1** is the public IP of the **dmz-host**):

**myfederation-mycloud**            IN  A   **100.30.1.1**

A similar entry is also needed in the DNS zone for the private IPs (recall that we assume that **10.11.4.2**
is the private IP of the **dmz-host**):

**myfederation-mycloud**            IN  A   **10.11.4.2**

Finally, you also need to create DNS entries to allow users to access the **fogbow-gui**, and for the services
running in the **internal-host** to find each other. Considering the example values given in this guide, these
entries would be (recall that we assume that **10.11.4.3** is the private IP of the **internal-host**):

**dashboard-myfederation-mycloud**  IN  A   **10.11.4.3**

**fns-myfederation-mycloud**        CNAME   **dashboard-myfederation-mycloud**

**ms-myfederation-mycloud**         CNAME   **dashboard-myfederation-mycloud**

### Service certificate

Fogbow offers a RESTful API, and uses XMPP to allow the communication between services running at
different sites of the federation. These communications are encrypted, and the involved servers
need to authenticate each other. For that, they need to use certificates issued by some trustworthy
certification authority. Three files are needed to define such certificates: i) the certificate,
ii) the key, and iii) the certificate chain.

## Configuration customization

Go to the directory *conf-files* inside *fogbow-deploy* directory.

```bash
$ cd fogbow-deploy/conf-files
```

Then, edit the configuration files present in this directory, as instructed in the following. The templates already
available indicate which fields need to be filled in (Required), and which have default values (Not Required), and,
therefore, are not mandatory. 

However, for the purpose of the installation described in this guide, only some of the Required fields need to
be edited, since some of these fields can be automatically filled in by the installation scripts. In the following,
we just discuss the fields that the installation scripts cannot automatically gather, and, therefore, need to be
filled in by you.

### Installation configuration

#### Hosts configuration

File: hosts.conf

```bash
$ cat hosts.conf
# Required
dmz_host_private_ip=

# Required
dmz_host_public_ip=

# Required
internal_host_private_ip=

# Required
remote_hosts_user=

# Not Required (if not specified, ansible will use the host ssh keys)
ansible_ssh_private_key_file=
```

The ***dmz_host_private_ip*** configuration constant is the **dmz-host** private IP address.

The ***dmz_host_public_ip*** configuration constant is the **dmz-host** public IP address.

The ***internal_host_private_ip*** configuration constant is the **internal-host** private IP address.

The **remote_hosts_user** is the user name that should be used to access the **dmz-host** and the
**internal-host** via ssh. Let us assume that this user name is **ubuntu**.

Considering the example values assumed in this guide, the content of the *hosts.conf* would be:

```bash
$ cat hosts.conf
# Required
dmz_host_private_ip=10.11.4.2

# Required
dmz_host_public_ip=100.30.1.1

# Required
internal_host_private_ip=10.11.4.3

# Required
remote_hosts_user=ubuntu

# Not Required (if not specified, ansible will use the host ssh keys)
ansible_ssh_private_key_file=
```

#### Messaging service configuration

File: intercomponent.conf

```bash
$ cat intercomponent.conf
# Required
xmpp_jid=

# Required
xmpp_password=

# Not Required
xmpp_server_ip=

# Not Required
xmpp_s2s_port=5269

# Not Required
xmpp_c2s_port=5222

# Not Required
xmpp_c2c_port=5347

# Not Required
xmpp_timeout=
```

This files contains the configuration of the XMPP **messaging-service**. The only field that needs
to be configured is the **xmpp_jid**.

Considering the examples in this guide, the **xmpp_jid** should be set to **myfederation.mycloud.mydomain**. Then,
the *intercomponent.conf* file would look like (recall that empty constants will be automatically configured by the
installation script):

```bash
$ cat intercomponent.conf
# Required
xmpp_jid=myfederation.mycloud.mydomain

# Required
xmpp_password=

# Not Required
xmpp_server_ip=

# Not Required
xmpp_s2s_port=5269

# Not Required
xmpp_c2s_port=5222

# Not Required
xmpp_c2c_port=5347

# Not Required
xmpp_timeout=
```

#### AAA plugins configuration

File: aaa.conf

```bash
$ cat aaa.conf
# Required
token_generator_plugin_class=

# Required
federation_identity_plugin_class=

# Required
authentication_plugin_class=

# Required
authorization_plugin_class=

# Required
local_user_credentials_mapper_plugin_class=
```

This file contains the configuration of the plugins that define how Authentication, Authorization, and Auditing (AAA)
operations are performed at your site.

There are two main ways to implement authentication: through a centralized identity provider service, or through
autonomous independent local identity providers. In both cases, the user interacts with the (local or centralized)
indentity provider through the Fogbow Resource Allocation Service (RAS). Three plugins need to be defined for the
implementation of the authentication of federation users: the token
generator, the federation identity, and the authorization plugins. 

Authorization at the federation level is performed by the authorization plugin. We currently deploy only the default
authorization plugin that allows any authentic federation user to execute all
operations made available by the RAS API. However, before the operation is actually executed in the underlying
cloud, the federation user is mapped to a local user by the mapper plugin. This mapping generates a token that can
be used to access the underlying cloud. Naturally, before executing the requests receive from the RAS, the cloud
middleware authenticates this token, and checks if the token authorizes the requester to perform the operation
embedded in the request.

There are multiple ways to configure the AAA plugins. Detailed information is provided in the links below.

- [LDAP and Openstack](2.3-ldap-on-openstack-aaa.md)
- [LDAP and Cloudstack](2.3-ldap-on-cloudstack-aaa.md)
- [Full Openstack](2.3-full-openstack-aaa.md)
- [Full Cloudstack](2.3-full-cloudstack-aaa.md)

### Interoperability plugins configuration

Now you need to configure the plugins that will allow Fogbow to interact with the underlying cloud. This is done
in the *interoperability.conf* file.

File: interoperability.conf

```bash
$ cat interoperability.conf
# Required
compute_plugin_class=

# Required
volume_plugin_class=

# Required
network_plugin_class=

# Required
attachment_plugin_class=

# Required
compute_quota_plugin_class=

# Required
image_plugin_class=

# Required
public_ip_plugin_class=
```

Below we describe the configuration steps for the different technologies supported.

- [Openstack](2.4-openstack-configuration.md)
- [Cloudstack](2.4-cloudstack-configuration.md)

### Apache web server

An Apache web server is used to handle HTTPS traffic. Two files in the *apache-confs* directory need
to be edited.

File: apache=confs/certificate-files.conf

```bash
$ cat apache-confs/certificate-files.conf
# You should provide an absolute path
# Required
SSL_certificate_file_path=

# Required
SSL_certificate_key_file_path=

# Required
SSL_certificate_chain_file_path=
```

Copy the certificate files in the **installation-machine** and edit the *certificates-files.conf* with
the corresponding paths.

File: apache-confs/domain-names.conf

This file contains the DNS names that have been associated to the services. Considering the example values
used in this guide, the content of this file would look like this:

```bash
$ cat apache-confs/domain-names.conf
# Required: Dashboard domain name
dashboard_domain_name=https://dashboard-myfederation-mycloud.mydomain

# Required: Federated Network Service domain name
fns_domain_name=https://fns-myfederation-mycloud.mydomain

# Required: Membership Service domain name
ms_domain_name=https://ms-myfederation-mycloud.mydomain
```

### Membership service configuration

File: ms.conf

```bash
$ cat ms.conf
# Required
server_port=8081

# Required
# List of members
members_list=
```

This files contains the list of **XMPP ID** of all federation members. Its configuration depends on the
federation that is being setup. Below we provide information about some knwon federations.

- [ATMOSPHERE project production federation](2.5-atm-prod-federation-configuration.md)

## Software installation

Now, you only need to go back to the *fogbow-deploy* directory, and run the installation script.

```bash
$ cd ..
$ bash install.sh
```

Your Fogbow site should be up now. Open a browser and point it to **dashboard.myfederation.mycloud.mydomain**,
log in using the appropriate credentials, and you are ready to manager resources in the cloud federation.

It is a good idea to save a copy of the conf-files directory. This will be useful when updating you site
installation, since most of (if not all) )the information in the configuration files are typically preserved
between successive deployments of a Fogbow site.