# Configuration of an Openstack cloud

Ask the cloud administrator to create a project to define the cloud resources that will be made
available to the federation, through Fogbow. Let us assume that this project is called
**fogbow-resources** and has been defined under domain **general**. A new user needs to be created,
and associated  with this project. Let us assume that this user is called **fogbow-resources-user**,
and that its password is **userpasswd**. Take note of the real values used in your deploy.

The resource quota for the **fogbow-resources** project defines the maximum number of virtual machine 
(VM) instances, volumes, floating IPs, security groups, as well as the maximum amount of RAM and storage that the 
cloud will provide to federation users, through Fogbow. This project must also have access to both
the **provider** and the **public** networks, and must have a **default** security group defined.

The security groups quota defines the maximum number of private networks that can be created by Fogbow,
since a security group needs to be created for each private network that is created. Also, a security
group is created whenever a public IP is assigned to a VM. Moreover, as mentioned before, there must be
a **default** security group that is associated to all VMs that are assigned an IP from the **provider**
network. The rules in the default security group should allow all egress traffic, and disallow any ingress
traffic. In summary, if
*x* is the number of private networks that can be created, and *y* is the number of available
floating IPs, then the security group quota should be set to *x+y+1*. 

Take the opportunity that you are talking to the cloud administrator to note down some important 
information that you will need when configuring the system. The list below summarizes the required 
information:

* The endpoint of the Nova service (Compute) - let us assume that it is **https://mycloud.mydomain:8774**;
* The endpoint of the Neutron service (Network) - let us assume that it is **https://mycloud.mydomain:9696**;
* The endpoint of the Cinder service (Block Storage) - let us assume that it is **https://mycloud.mydomain:8776**;
* The endpoint of the Glance service (Image) - let us assume that it is **https://mycloud.mydomain:9292**;
* The endpoint of the Keystone service (Identity) - let us assume that it is **https://mycloud.mydomain:5000/v3**;
